TELCODOCS-2108 PerformanceProfile operations in a  hosted cluster (#91068)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/apply-performance-profile-hosted-cluster.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * scalability_and_performance/using-node-tuning-operator.adoc
// * hosted_control_planes/hcp-machine-config.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="apply-performance-profile-hosted-cluster_{context}"]
= Configuring low latency tuning in a hosted cluster

To set low latency with the performance profile on the nodes in your hosted cluster, you can use the Node Tuning Operator. In {hcp}, you can configure low latency tuning by creating config maps that contain `Tuned` objects and referencing those config maps in your node pools. The tuned object in this case is a `PerformanceProfile` object that defines the performance profile you want to apply to the nodes in a node pool.

.Procedure

> . Export the management cluster kubeconfig by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Export the management cluster `kubeconfig` file by running the following command:
```

----

.  Edit the `NodePool` object in the `clusters` namespace adding the `spec.tuningConfig` field and the name of the created performance profile in that field by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc edit np -n clusters
----

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: hypershift.openshift.io/v1beta1
kind: NodePool
metadata:
  annotations:
    hypershift.openshift.io/nodePoolCurrentConfig: 2f752a2c
    hypershift.openshift.io/nodePoolCurrentConfigVersion: 998aa3ce
    hypershift.openshift.io/nodePoolPlatformMachineTemplate: democluster-us-east-1a-3dff55ec
  creationTimestamp: "2025-04-09T09:41:55Z"
  finalizers:
  - hypershift.openshift.io/finalizer
  generation: 1
  labels:
    hypershift.openshift.io/auto-created-for-infra: democluster
  name: democluster-us-east-1a
  namespace: clusters
  ownerReferences:
  - apiVersion: hypershift.openshift.io/v1beta1
    kind: HostedCluster
    name: democluster
    uid: af77e390-c289-433c-9d29-3aee8e5dc76f
  resourceVersion: "53056"
  uid: 11efa47c-5a7b-476c-85cf-a274f748a868
spec:
  tuningConfig:  
  - name: performance
  arch: amd64
  clusterName: democluster
  management:

----
+
[NOTE]
====

> You can reference the same profile in multiple node pools. In {hcp}, the Node Tuning Operator appends a hash of the node pool name and namespace to the name of the Tuned CRs to distinguish them. After you make the changes, the system detects that a configuration change is required and starts a rolling update of the nodes in that pool to apply the new configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can reference the same profile in multiple node pools. In {hcp}, the Node Tuning Operator appends a hash of the node pool name and namespace to the name of the `Tuned` custom resources to distinguish them. After you make the changes, the system detects that a configuration change is required and starts a rolling update of the nodes in that pool to apply the new configuration.
```

====

.Verification

> . List all `NodePools` across all namespaces by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. List all node pools across all namespaces by running the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc --kubeconfig="$MGMT_KUBECONFIG" get np -A
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAMESPACE   NAME                     CLUSTER       DESIRED NODES   CURRENT NODES   AUTOSCALING   AUTOREPAIR   VERSION   UPDATINGVERSION   UPDATINGCONFIG   MESSAGE
clusters    democluster-us-east-1a   democluster   1               1               False         False        4.17.0    False             True                          
----
+
[NOTE]
====

> The `UPDATINGCONFIG` field indicates whether the node pool is in the process of updating its configuration. During this update, the `UPDATINGCONFIG` field in the NodePool's status becomes `True`. The new configuration is considered fully applied only when the `UPDATINGCONFIG` field returns to `False`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `UPDATINGCONFIG` field indicates whether the node pool is in the process of updating its configuration. During this update, the `UPDATINGCONFIG` field in the node pool's status becomes `True`. The new configuration is considered fully applied only when the `UPDATINGCONFIG` field returns to `False`.
```

====

> . Lists all `ConfigMaps` in the `clusters-democluster` namespace by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. List all config maps in the `clusters-democluster` namespace by running the following command:
```

. To list available secrets on the management cluster, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get secrets -n clusters
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                              TYPE                      DATA   AGE
builder-dockercfg-25qpp           kubernetes.io/dockercfg   1      128m
default-dockercfg-mkvlz           kubernetes.io/dockercfg   1      128m
democluster-admin-kubeconfig      Opaque                    1      127m
democluster-etcd-encryption-key   Opaque                    1      128m
democluster-kubeadmin-password    Opaque                    1      126m
democluster-pull-secret           Opaque                    1      128m
deployer-dockercfg-8lfpd          kubernetes.io/dockercfg   1      128m
----

. Extract the `kubeconfig` file for the hosted cluster by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc get secret <SECRET_NAME> -n clusters -o jsonpath='{.data.kubeconfig}' | base64 -d > hosted-cluster-kubeconfig

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ oc get secret <secret_name> -n clusters -o jsonpath='{.data.kubeconfig}' | base64 -d > hosted-cluster-kubeconfig
```

----
+
.Example
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get secret democluster-admin-kubeconfig -n clusters -o jsonpath='{.data.kubeconfig}' | base64 -d > hosted-cluster-kubeconfig
----

. Export the hosted cluster kubeconfig by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export HC_KUBECONFIG=<path_to_hosted-cluster-kubeconfig>
----

> . Verify that the `kubeletconfig` is mirrored in the hosted cluster by running the following command:

Reviewer: Not sure if kubeletconfig needs monospace or not - it doesn't have it earlier in this proc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * scalability_and_performance/using-node-tuning-operator.adoc
// * hosted_control_planes/hcp-machine-config.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="apply-performance-profile-hosted-cluster_{context}"]
= Configuring low latency tuning in a hosted cluster

> To set low latency with the performance profile on the nodes in your hosted cluster, you can use the Node Tuning Operator. In {hcp}, you can configure low latency tuning by creating config maps that contain `Tuned` objects and referencing those config maps in your node pools. The tuned object in this case is a `PerformanceProfile` object that defines the performance profile you want to apply to the nodes in a node pool.

Reviewer 2: Does the way `{hcp}` is written is on purpose?

Author: that is an variable which will be populated when the docs build

.Procedure

. Create a config map that contains a valid performance profile manifest, and reference the manifest in a node pool. Save the following `ConfigMap` manifest in a file named `performance-profile-demo.yaml`:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: performance-profile-test
  namespace: clusters
data:
  tuning: |
    apiVersion: performance.openshift.io/v2
kind: PerformanceProfile
metadata:
  name: performance
spec:
  cpu:
    isolated: 1,3-11,13,15-23
    reserved: 0,2,12,14
  nodeSelector:
    node-role.kubernetes.io/worker: ''
  numa:
    topologyPolicy: single-numa-node
  realTimeKernel:
    enabled: false
  workloadHints:
    highPowerConsumption: true
    perPodPowerManagement: false

>     realTime: true

Reviewer 3: Here we can align the PerformanceProfile yaml contents for better readability.

Author: @rshemtov13 I thought that was the way it should be formatted with those indents. Do you have a sample file ?

----

. Export the management cluster kubeconfig:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export MGMT_KUBECONFIG=<path_to_mgmt_kubeconfig>
----

. Create the `ConfigMap` object in the management cluster:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc --kubeconfig="$MGMT_KUBECONFIG" apply -f performance-profile-demo.yaml
----

> . Reference the `ConfigMap` object in the `spec.tuningConfig` field of the node pool, either by editing a node pool or creating one. In this example, assume that you have only one `NodePool`, named `nodepool-1`, which contains 2 nodes.

Reviewer 3: After applying the performance-profile.demo.yaml and referencing it in the nodepool object like explained above the nodepool UPDATINGCONFIG status will transition into true. So until it doesn't finish updating, the changes didn't yet take place so it's worth specifying that. You can even see that in the example output you gave below.

  tuningConfig:
  - name: performance-profile-test
  status:
  ...
----
+
[NOTE]
====
You can reference the same config map in multiple node pools. In {hcp}, the Node Tuning Operator appends a hash of the node pool name and namespace to the name of the Tuned CRs to distinguish them. Once you apply a PerformanceProfile and reference it in the `ConfigMap`, the system detects that a configuration change is required and starts a rolling update of the nodes in that pool to apply the new configuration.
====

.Verification

. Export the management cluster kubeconfig:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export MGMT_KUBECONFIG=<path_to_mgmt_kubeconfig>
----

. List all `NodePools` across all namespaces by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc --kubeconfig="$MGMT_KUBECONFIG" get np -A
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAMESPACE   NAME                     CLUSTER       DESIRED NODES   CURRENT NODES   AUTOSCALING   AUTOREPAIR   VERSION   UPDATINGVERSION   UPDATINGCONFIG   MESSAGE
clusters    democluster-us-east-1a   democluster   1               1               False         False        4.17.0    False             True                          
----
+
[NOTE]
====

> The `UPDATINGCONFIG` field indicates whether the node pool is in the process of updating its configuration. During this update, the `UPDATINGCONFIG` field in the NodePool's status becomes `True`. Only after this field turns back to `False` can you assume the new configuration is fully rolled out.

Reviewer 2: nit: can you assume -> you can assume
